= How to write documentation =

Wiki concepts are naturally mapped onto docbook concepts.

== Document structure ==

A book is structured into chapters and each chapter is structured into sections. A wiki document provides a syntax
for creating nested sections with different levels. The book structure can naturally leverage the wiki document
structure with the following rules:

* Top level section correspond to book chapters
* Other wiki sections correspond to book sections

|(((
{{code}}
= Section 1 =
== Section 2 ==
{{/code}})))|(((
{{code language=xml indent=2}}
<chapter>
  <title>Section 1</title>
  <section>
    <title>Section 2</title>
  </section>
</chapter>
{{/code}})))

{{note}}All wiki sections don't have to be explicitely declared, it is possible to //omit// the declaration of a section. When it
occurs, implicit docbook section will be created with no title.{{/note}}

== Document content ==

The content of a book can be seen as a collection of content, each content can be categorized into blocks
or rich text. Rich text can either be simple text or it can be made richer, like a word in bold. A block contains
usually rich text and gives a meaning to the text, the most natural block is the paragraph.

=== Rich text ===

==== Emphasis ====

The following syntax can be used to put the emphasis for creating richtext

|{{{**bold**}}}|**bold**
|{{{//italic//}}}|//italic//
|{{{__underline__}}}|__underline__
|{{{,,subscript,,}}}|,,subscript,,
|{{{^^upperscript^^}}}|^^upperscript^^
|{{{--strikethrough--}}}|--strikethrough--
|{{{##monospaced##}}}|##monospaced##
|{{{{{code}}inlineCode(){{/code}}}}}|{{code}}inlineCode(){{/code}}

=== Blocks ===

==== Paragraphs ====

Unlike docbook, wiki paragraphs are implicitely defined, the general rule is that any text content that does not
contain wiki instruction is one paragraph. The wikbook system creates docbook paragraphs when it is required. The simplest
example is that any content in a section is a paragraph.

|((({{code}}
= Chapter 1 =
The paragraph of the chapter 1.
== Section 1 ==
The paragraph of the section 1.
== Section 2 ==
The first paragraph of the section 2.

The second paragraph of the section 2.
{{/code}})))|(((
{{code language=xml indent=2}}
<chapter>
  <title>Chapter 1</title>
  <para>The paragraph of the chapter 1.</para>
  <section>
    <title>Section 1</title>
    <para>The paragraph of the section 1.</para>
  </section>
  <section>
    <title>Section 2</title>
    <para>The first paragraph of the section 2.</para>
    <para>The second paragraph of the section 2.</para>
  </section>
</chapter>
{{/code}})))

===